foreign
Music Man everybody knows it and there
are quite a few people who hate it I
hate country music you and me both bro I
love all music except for Country
meanwhile for some people it's a way of
life country music
why is this and more importantly why
should you care
well if you don't care don't worry
because uh this video isn't actually
about country music I mean don't get me
wrong we'll still have a bit of Charlie
Pride and chicken fried but uh this is
more a video about all of those big
things that you want to do with your
life and you've wanted to do them for a
long time but for whatever reason you
still haven't gotten around to doing
them basically what I'm trying to do via
the banjo is answer a big question that
I think we've all asked ourselves at one
point or another
why do we pursue some goals but
abandon others all right enough of the
banjo it must be annoying by now also
massive thanks to Shopify for sponsoring
this more on them later for now here's
the dream that I gave up on
one two three
I'm making a country song and look all
pretenses aside I know what I look like
more cocaine than I do Cowboy but I'm
doing this because my love for Country
runs deep
I have wanted to make country music ever
since I heard the second verse of Johnny
Cash's Folsom Prison Blues it's the
third line where he says I shot a man in
Reno just to watch him die
the way I see that line now is like a
nightmare in three arcs act one you've
got this very Vivid murder act two
you've got this motive it's so cruel but
so self-aware that it's almost Charming
then act three is the aftertaste it's
where you realize that the Joke is on
You the thing that really does it's not
the guy in Reno it's your integrity it's
what you knew about yourself because
when you really listen to that lyric on
some level deep down
there's a part of you that is cheering
for the Killer and all for a reason no
more complex than his Johnny Cash just
sounds so damn cool
I was 12 and it was the first time that
a lyric gave me the feeling I'm sure you
know the feeling you know when a
creative work just sets your head on
fire and you end up transcending time
and space I've spent a lot of my life
seeking out that feeling in all sorts of
stuff books movies illustration and out
of convenience but also as an in-joke
I've started referring to those moments
with this goofy name I call it the
astral yeehaw astral cause you leave
this earth and yeeha as a tribute to
Johnny Cash and that gut punch he gave
me as a 12 year old as anybody who seeks
out this feeling knows you also become a
little bit obsessed with trying to make
it and I'm no exception I like writing I
like drawing I like making documentaries
but even though this obsession with
astral yihars begun with Johnny Cash
it's been 20 years and I'm still yet to
make a country song but that all ends
today
how I got like half a plan
meet Adam
um
my so-called half a plan
Adam lives in a one bedroom cabin in the
middle of nowhere
his roommate is Penny The Spider
and Echo local paper we believe him out
in the sun benjam with people's
driveways it's all good I don't read
this [__] anyway this stuff from the
bottle and fell off he's got a big old
heart a [__] stamp that says cruise
control and a voice of an Angel if that
angel can just drunk a gallon
the last time we hung out I gave him a
matching tattoo it's of Mulk from The
Simpsons I like this about Adam he feels
like an arm wrestle between impulsivity
and soul all wrapped up with a rat in a
mandolin I don't know he's just a
freaking good guy to be around now Adam
has sung a lot about the dumb decisions
he's made but the choice he made a week
ago is what I would call his dumbest
decision to date one of the things
that's on my bucket list and this has
been on my bucket list for a long long
long time is to write and record a
country song
yeah I'm in
yep a world-class country musician and
May
so we hit the road all the way to the
northern rivers of New South Wales where
Adam's cabin was located totally
off-grid and totally beautiful man
that's the telly
and this is my kitchen this is the house
this is lovely dude
so we start jamming
we quickly turned into a chat on how to
actually make a country hit right we can
write a bunch of songs yeah I might have
stuff but I'm just right now I'm
thinking of a hit yeah you know yeah
yeah yeah I told Adam about the astral
yeeha and my dream of capturing it in a
hit song Adam told me that sometimes a
hit song is as simple as a collection of
hit elements it's stuff we all know
things like verses a big old bridge A
Chorus the instruments a three minute 40
run time and a whole bunch of other
stuff that didn't fit on the chessboard
with that in mind we started
[Music]
that's the bridge of course
hey man
[Music]
[Applause]
hey get away
[Music]
had done never hit him with the ones oh
my God yeah we're gonna stay like
[Music]
we had written the song and I ticked all
the boxes versus choruses and it
calculated three minute 40 run time hell
we haven't played it for our friends
[Music]
I mean listen you're about to hear the
sound of beautiful supportive people
you're also about to hear the truth
you can hear it right
that realization in my voice oh yeah
yeah I knew we didn't have it we had a
song
but we didn't have this on in bed I
replayed the day and I realized what was
missing
that feeling
you know the one the astral yeeha and
why I wasn't sure but when I'm lost like
this I usually turn towards the light
the blue light of my phone that is my
wife and daughter were asleep and I was
wide awake in a Wikipedia hole desperate
to find an answer to the question what
even is a country song
a lot of people infinitely smarter than
me have tried to answer this question
and generally they usually start with
stylistic fruits the African origins
Blues Gospel Jazz and even some of the
instruments the banjo for example I
recently learned is actually a
descendant of West African loots which
were made from gourds combine that with
a couple of instruments and instrumental
influences from Europe and the
Mediterranean Basin and now we add the
appellation migration yep it's the Giddy
Up Factor think folk songs and folk
songs that borrow from Celtics
songwriting sensibilities and let's not
forget where they are the geographic
backdrop cannot be understated here the
beautiful vastness of North America
you've got indigenous American
influences everywhere plus there's
Tejano Creole Cajun New Mexico Hawaiian
and a million more things and eventually
in 1922 you wind up with what is
arguably the first ever commercial
recording of quote unquote country music
there's something so cool about this
song but yeah if that's the origins list
as you can imagine it is Then followed
by an even bigger list of everything
country music became people like to cite
like six or seven generations of country
and all of the genres that spawned the
genres infused with like psychedelic
country or hip-hop country it's
critiques its power its personalities
from Woody Guthrie and Patsy Cline to
Taylor Swift and Lil Nars X and to my
delight there is also a bunch of overdue
praise for the genius of Shania Twain
there's around here that I passed out
with my phone on my face it's a good
look for me but I woke up feeling fine I
think having a baby is maybe kind of
impervious to shitty sleep but it hasn't
maybe impervious to the fact that our
song didn't have that feeling I was
light years from astral yeeha so what
was missing was it just the other
instruments
remember I was saying that like you know
a good song's always going to be a good
song and a good song should be a good
song just using it with a guitar subtext
I was wrong so what was the problem
anyone can put a bunch of cool words
together and like you know country
chords aren't hard they're all the same
chords so anyone can write a country
song I've done that tick but whether or
not I believe it that's the Crux of
being good as as opposed to being great
or like is just doing something you know
what I mean the difference between good
and great is believability Adam said he
had learned this from experience and not
the good kind would write the songs and
think I knew what the songs were but
like I don't know what their songs meant
until like you know later in my life
you're almost cosplaying as somebody
who's more emotionally mature you know
and you're just like recycling what's
been done before and passing it off is a
country song what do you think the
switch was for you and your own writing
because you were saying that once upon a
time where the feelings you were trying
on for size but now when you listen to
your music I mean it's brutally honest
what changed I think I I just I just
went and [__] lived for a bit you
know I think I was like kind of
cosplaying the folk artist and I guess I
just went out and [__] got my heart
broken you know I went out and broke
some hearts I did some questionable
things and thought a lot about them and
made the songs believable
so this gave me hope not because I could
suddenly write a country song but
because I know that I have definitely
done some questionable things
which presents a new problem I've got a
lot of mistakes over indexed arguably
how do I turn them into music
good thing I knew exactly who to ask
Ruby
so who is Ruby well Ruby and Adam
playing a band together Ruby Fields god
tier lyrics and stories set to music
that blends Pub Rock punk in the best
parts of country the debut album hit
number one in Australia from the moment
you discover them they're the kind of
band that feels like your friends your
old friends your good friends the kind
of friends who don't judge you and just
love you for who you are it was part
coincidence and part Mutual Fascination
that led to Ruby and I meeting and since
our first dumb drunken chat all those
years ago we knew we'd be friends for
life
we have made a lot of the same mistakes
in fact we've made a lot of the same
mistakes together one night before I was
sober when somebody had done a lot of
drugs for us I think it was us and she
asked me in all Earnest if I would
tattoo her Knuckles right then and there
and I was like Ruby
of course now the next morning we wake
up both feeling that [__] I vomit that
she writes a song about it
how
from where I am now
what are three things that I should
master or get into and it can be more
than three it can't be less though it's
a really lame answer but I've heard you
sing and play guitar
and I've read your lyrics so I don't
know what I can tell you to improve on
and that's a real shitty lazy answer but
I don't know anything that you could
learn that I could tell you to do do you
know what I mean but you're the famous
musician and I'm me
there is a difference
I couldn't tell you what that is because
in ways I feel like we're both
performers and we're both appreciators
of Art and music so what what is the
difference between you and me Ruby was
right
that was a really lame answer but she
had left me with that big question what
was the difference between her and I
so I took a step back from the
songwriting process I felt like I was
hitting a wall and sometimes for me the
best solution to a problem is just stop
working on it for a bit I turn my focus
to a place where finding the feeling
wasn't so hard drawing and words
my objective was to figure out a band
name by testing some ideas that we've
been kicking around
oh we got the smellies the ratty milks
mice Road Truckers pilk Pepsi and milk a
lot of rat names here because there was
a dead rat underneath Adam's house I
might I might try to draw the Joan
Cusack tribute band
so what I'm doing here is
experimentation drawing helps me figure
out if a name feels cool but it also
shows me if the name can be used as
merch on our Shopify store who
incidentally is our sponsor what I like
about Shopify is it helps me to monetize
my creativity which means that I can
fund my dreams with my dreams and if
you'd like to too then yeah have a
listen man what I've done is I've
created a tab on my own Shopify website
called fake band merch and for all of
these designs I'm creating a shirt this
top spot is reserved for the actual band
name but I also like the runners-up so
they're gonna have their own shirts too
probably worth mentioning that my
knowledge of HTML peaked when I made my
MySpace cursor into a sparkling dinosaur
and yet I can still make this code free
baby but yeah Shopify there's plugins to
make the site look legit books your
spreadsheets customer emails and I can
use this to sell online offline social
media everywhere so if you are an
entrepreneur or if you're looking to
make band merch or if you've got some
ideas and you want to sell them in a
shop setting like we are at
struthless.com which has yes the fake
band merch then do check out Shopify
there's only Link in the description for
a free trial shopify.com forward slash
struthless and then maybe a sad face on
the o
something like that that would look kind
of cool in a truck this is so [__] but
this is literally how I ideate so before
before you judge me for my childish
drawings here are some nice drawings
I've done see I can draw kind of not
really actually that is so bad dude dude
it will be good it will be good man I
feel a lot easier I gotta say drawing
than I do not drawing
I don't know I actually did know the
solution it was right in front of me and
it even came with a name I'm gonna tell
them I'm going to tell them I reckon I
got it I got it how do I call them Ruby
Fields you have reached the message
Bangkok Ruby did not pick up
hello Adam it's Ken
what's going on dog dude I think I
cracked the band name
okay
yeah I mean quick refresher on how my
dumb head works I give stupid little
names to feelings I don't know why I
just do as you'll recall a Transcendent
moment in a piece of art in my head gets
called an astral yeeha the flow state
gets called the pocket Zone sudden
realizations about how everything is
connected get called a bubble and
mistakes get called hiccups so hopefully
this makes sense this pocket Zone had
just become a serious bubble about
hiccups mistakes are the path to
creativity I know this when I draw but
when I picked up that mandolin I forgot
that big important lesson the less open
you are to failure the less open you are
to success it's the Common Thread that I
see in every artist that I love they
truly adore experimentation and I feel
it the most when someone Embraces a
hiccup a mistake as a new idea my
favorite example of this is in a Dolly
Parton song it's called do I ever cross
your mind in the version she did with
Chet Atkins at around the 50 second Mark
Dolly while singing about heartbreak
Giggles now she didn't intend for that
Giggle and when she remade the song
later it's not there but for me in that
version it is a hiccup so perfect that
it is the astral yeeha you just start
out and I'll follow you we'll just kind
of figure out something to me it's the
Holy Grail of creativity when the
mistake becomes the Masterpiece it's the
Chimes that fall over in Fantasia or the
unfinished portrait of a soldier by
Alice Neal or Bill Burr's iconic
improvised rant against this [__]
City
that you find in pieces pieces of
creativity that reminds you of how
brilliant it is to be alive and human I
repeat without pain the old saying is
there's no game and I found that to be
true in my life you build on failure you
use it as a stepping stone
but here's the thing about all of this
the astral yeeha only happens if you let
the hiccups happen and man
I just have not been doing that at all
so now to nitpick instead I've been
approaching songwriting with this like
formulaic rigidity and why well it's
kind of embarrassing but I think I
needed it to work I think I had this
desperation which manifested in over
planning like obsessing over versus
pre-choruses in a three minute 40 run
time but we all know this following an
equation is not often a very good path
to making stuff and worse than that it
is so not country
it's time to flip the switch
writing what we're doing now yeah
pressure's all off and then these were
like
[Music]
we started to ride the less we fought
the hiccups the more the songs found us
[Applause]
[Music]
so it should be like that should be like
the Declaration of love
[Music]
when you drop
a face
[Applause]
[Music]
I threw up in one of those things
if I had hair I know someone would have
to hold it back but I didn't and they
said
[Music]
[Applause]
that's it
then something really interesting
happened when the pressure was
completely off the pressure was so off
that Aaron wasn't even filming this he
was cooking snags sausages for everyone
not in Australia
but if you listen closely in the
background of this shot you can hear a
song being written
[Music]
It Was Written in less than an hour less
than the time it takes for Aaron to talk
about barbecue sauce
so good and that song became the track
is it your dad gave you magic mine gave
me bipolar
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
we hit the studio with that mentality in
hand where are we now compared to where
we were ah this is no longer country
this is marrickville which is very much
in the city big smell Big Smoke
[Music]
Joey more slip than slapped me
getting Punk with it
[Music]
and then the roof should be done with
the banjo not playing the banjo properly
then playing the banjo properly
gang vocals that were more gang than
vocal
[Applause]
and just I don't know having fun man say
Adam is that you done for vocals
this cam I believe that's me down for
vocals
jumping vocals he says well time for a
transition show me being country
nice very good the hiccups hiccups
everywhere nice thank you and I think
this one probably catches it best in the
song
I turned one into
that was sick yeah that was really cool
the way you said wanting to pierce I
think yeah there's a little slip that's
the hiccup baby what did you like about
that take Adam
okay I'm out of that drop
I didn't know how did that dropped and
that dropped what the [__] is that he's
not strapped oh
I think I started this video with that
question why did we chase some goals and
abandon others
and
unsatisfyingly enough there are a
million reasons
sometimes things are just out of our
control other times it's self-sabotage
and I don't think I'm any closer to
finding a universal answer
but I have realized something related
and it's arguably more important
here goes
the goals we abandon have the power to
do more for us than hitting them ever
could failure teaches us in a way that
success just doesn't and often knowing
what not to do is the best way to
success or in weirder words the goals we
hit are astral yihas and the ones we
give up on are the hiccups and if
writing this song is anything to go off
the hiccups they're not the opposite of
yeeha's they're the key that unlocks
them maybe I'm wrong I'm often wrong
failure is powerful it has the power to
make us feel shame until we never want
to try again artist film
but it also has the power to make us
grow more than anything else does in
this world yeah if you've got demons in
your closet gaps in your resume and
hiccups in your head then you've also
got backstage access to the roris truths
the richest stories and whatever it is
that made Dolly Parton giggle while
singing about a breakup
we can't change the fact that highs and
lows are inevitable but we can change
what that means
I don't know why we make the mistakes
that we do but I do know that they make
the damn good country songs
so if I've learned anything it's this
more open we are with our flaws and our
failures the more open we are to what
they can become
[Music]
Jesus
life was meant to be a little more than
this heat and water into one I turned
one into this I've been trying to save
my money but I got nothing to show for
I'm working I'm drunk or hung over
Jesus
[Music]
take it easy on your guilt trips
memories
did you change
[Music]
your dad gave you my chicken mine gave
me bipolar he sent you here to die but
at least you got some closure so join me
for some spill tips take it easy on your
guilt trips will be working all drunk
[Music]
Jesus
[Laughter]
I like the song